list of useful git command


git clone 'url'

working area ----> stagging area ----> git repository
	     git add [* or 'Filename']	git commit -m 'msg holder'

what is repository?
repo is like a folder in which my all project related data is saved and revision history
multiple collaborator and can be public and private

what is project?
project term is used in git env, it provides project bord from which we can set workflow of project and 
workflow of project


BLOB   Binary Large OBject file
a blob only holds the data not the metadata of file name of blob is SHA1 value

Trees it is a object which represent the directory, name of tree is SHA1 value
it holds the BLOB as well as sub directory


commit object :- commit holds the current state of the repository. A commit is also named by SHA1. you can consider a commit object as a node of linked list. Every commit object has a pointer to the parent commit object. you can travse with it. commit can have multiple parent commits

Branches :- Branches are used to create another line of developement, by default , Git has a master branch, which is same as trunk in subversion another VCS whose name is SVN.
why do we create new branch ? to work on a new feature, once the feature is completed, it is merged back with the master branch and we delete the branch, every branch is referenced with HEAD.



pull

push

Reversion :- version of source code, represented by commits, git uses SHA1 hashes

Head :- it is a pointer which always points to the latest commit in the branch.
it always gets updated with commit.

Tags :- tags assigns a meaningful name with a specific version in the repository. tags are very similar to branches, but the difference is that tags are immutale. Once a tag is created for a particular commit, even if you create a new commit, it will not be updated. Usually, developers create tags for product releases.




git status -sb
ahead and behind  == >  local repo is behind/ahead of remote repo
























